***ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer: is a formal language comprising a set of instructions that produce various kinds of output

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer:Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter (java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator javadoc

What is an IDE?
Answer:Integrated Development Environment
An Integrated Development Environment (IDE) is an application which facilitates the application development. In general, an IDE is a graphical user interface (GUI)-based workbench. It is designed to help a developer in building software applications with an environment

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer:Eclipse   IntelliJ NetBeans JDeveloper  MyEclipse  BlueJ JCreator DrJava jGRASP  JSource

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:

What is a class?
Answer:is like an object constructor, or a "blueprint" for creating objects.

What is an object?
Answer:is a self-contained component which consists of methods and properties to make certain type of data useful

What is the entry point of an application?
Answer:the point at which the application (your code) enters the library

Why is the main() static?
Answer:so that compiler can call it without the creation of an object or before the creation of an object of the class

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer: Object class is the root or superclass of the class hierarchy

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer: Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables
Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer:Abstract classes can have constants, members, method stubs (methods without a body) and defined methods
 interfaces can only have constants and methods stubs
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:No, you cannot instantiate an interface. Generally, it contains abstract methods (except default and static methods introduced in Java

What is Access Modifier?
Answer:helps to restrict the scope of a class, constructor, variable, method, or data member

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:They are an abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.
let us create working methods and variables, then re-use all or part of them without compromising security
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:Java compiler imports java. lang package internally by default. It provides the fundamental classes that are necessary to design a basic Java program

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:The application programming interface is developer-centric.

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer: No java does not support Multiple Inheritance directly because it leads Method overriding extended same class and same method name

What is method overloading and when does it happen?
Answer:Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their argument lists are different. It is similar to constructor overloading in Java, that allows a class to have more than one constructor having different argument lists.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:An Exception is an unwanted event that interrupts the normal flow of the program. When an exception occurs program execution gets



What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:In Java, the final keyword can be used while declaring an entity. Using the final keyword means that the value can't be modified in the future. This entity can be - but is not limited to - a variable, a class or a method.

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed. Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor?
Answer:A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer: A class can have multiple constructors that differ in the number and/or type of their parameters

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:All classes have at least one constructor. If a class does not explicitly declare any, the Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called the default constructor. ... If the parent has no constructor ( Object does have one), the compiler will reject the program.


What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:The this keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor. The most common use of the this keyword is to eliminate the confusion between class attributes and parameters with the same name

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer:We can use super keyword to access the data member or field of parent class. It is used if parent class and child class have same fields. In the above example, Animal and Dog both classes have a common property color. If we print color property, it will print the color of current class by default.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer:The JVM manages system memory and provides a portable execution environment for Java-based applications

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer: because different operating system have different JVMs

What version of Java are you using?
Answer:11

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:Collectively referred to as APA Style Journal Article Reporting Standards, or APA Style JARS

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:JDK is a software development kit whereas JRE is a software bundle that allows Java program to run
JVM is an environment for executing bytecode. The full form of JDK is Java Development Kit
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:JRE is the container
s the content. Java Runtime Environment contains JVM,

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:Compile-time is the time at which the source code is converted into an executable code
run time is the time at which the executable code is started running.
What is heap?
Answer: is a specialized tree-based data structure which is essentially an almost complete tree that satisfies the heap property

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer:Garbage Collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer: StringBuilder is faster and preferred over StringBuffer
StringBuffer for the single-threaded program.
What is Singleton class?
Answer:is a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer: Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream
Deserialization is the reverse process

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:while loop, condition is evaluated first and then the statements inside loop body gets executed,
do-while loop, statements inside do-while gets executed first and then the condition is evaluated.
What is Enum?
Answer: type is a special data type that enables for a variable to be a set of predefined constants

What is Iterator?
Answer:is to allow a user to process every element of a container while isolating the user from the internal structure of the container.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:int is a primitive data type while Integer is a Wrapper class. We cant compare both on the basis of memory still integer will consume

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:because String objects are cached in the String pool

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:is useful when you want to invoke multiple constructors, one after another, by initializing only one instance

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation
 parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation
What does JIT stands for?
Answer:is an inventory management method used for reducing time within the production unit

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:s the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management. Java programs compile to bytecode that can be run on a Java Virtual Machine, or JVM for short. When Java programs run on the JVM, objects are created on the heap, which is a portion of memory dedicated to the program

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:No, Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of memory

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:he Heap Space contains all objects are created
Stack is only used for the method — or methods — currently running
What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:is a feature in the Java programming language. It allows an executing Java program to examine or "introspect" upon itself, and manipulate internal properties of the program

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer: is a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously to maximum utilization of CPU

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:s the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource

What is a Framework?
Answer:is a software framework, is a platform for developing software applications

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:1. Selenium · 2. Serenity · 3. JUnit · 4. TestNG · 5. Cucumber · 6. JBehave · 7. Mockito.

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:TestNG is a testing framework that is capable of making Selenium tests easier to understand and of generating reports that are easy to understand
 jUnitIt is useful for Java Developers to write and run repeatable tests
What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:is a logical, constraint-based or preferential relationship between two activities or tasks such that the completion or the initiation of one is reliant on the completion or initiation of the other

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer: is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer:refers to the execution of a program where type of object is determined/known at compile time
uses Objects to resolve binding. Overloaded methods are resolved